# Best Practices for Application Deployment I

## Key Traits of Cloud Applications

Applications that are built in the cloud should have four key traits:

* *Global Reach:* Being *responsive* and *accessible* to users around the globe.

* *Scalability:* The architecture should leverage the capability of the underlying cloud platform to scale *elastically*.
  * An application that scales *elastically* is able to produce or remove resources based on demand.

* *High Availability:* Handling high traffic volumes *reliably*.

* *Security:* The application and underlying architecture should implement best security practices.

- - - -

## Application Implementation Goals

When developing an application, the developer should follow certain practices so that his/her application fulfills the *key traits* mentioned above. These generally are:

* Implementing *microservices-based* architecture with *loosely-coupled* services that can be *monitored* and fail *gracefully* on error.
  * *Loosely-coupled* services don't rely on the underlying architecture of other services.

* Considering issues such as *local law compliance* and *user latency* when choosing the infrastructure deployment location.

* Implementing, building, and releasing systems that enable *continuous integration and delivery*.

* Having *repeatable deployments* and being able to *roll back* to previous versions based on possible production bugs.

* Re-architecting and migrating legacy applications in an *incremental* manner.

- - - -

# Specific Key Practices

## Manging the Code and Environment

* Application code should be stored in a *code repository*.
  * **Good Practice:** Use **Git** or **Subversion**

* External dependencies shouldn't be stored in the *code repository*.
  * **Good Practice:** Explicitly declare dependencies and their versions. These should be installed by a *dependency manager*.

* Configuration settings shouldn't be stored as constants within the source code.
* **Good Practice:** Store the configuration settings as environment variables.

__Benefits:__ Maintaining a proper code structure can enable *continuous integration and delivery*. Seperating the dependencies and configuration settings will make it easier to move between development, testing, and production environments.

- - - -

## Implementing Loosely-Coupled Microservices

* Instead of implementing a *monolithic* environment, the environment should be implemented or re-factored to use a set of microservices.
  * **Good Practice:** For example, different **Compute Engine** VMs should be used for achieving different tasks.

* Design application components that are *loosely-coupled* with other components and APIs.
  * *Loosely-coupled* application components don't rely on the underlying architecture of other services.

__Benefits:__ The codebase becomes *modular* and small changes won't require having to restart the entire application. Each service can be updated, deployed, and scaled without affecting the entire environment; this makes the environment more resilient to failure, spikes in traffic, and changes to services. It will also be easier to determine where the code need to be changed and packages won't have intertwined dependencies.

- - - -

## Perform Asynchronous Operations

* Keep the operations in the user thread to a minimum.
  * **Good Practice:** All computations should be performed in the backend.

* Perform backend operations asynchronously.

* Use event-driven processing whenever possible.
  * **Good Practice:** Use **Google Cloud** functions to implement microservices that run only based on specific event-triggers.

__Benefits:__ Asynchronous operations will allow for smaller *load times* that will improve *responsiveness*. Additionally,

- - - -

## Implement Stateless Components

* Application components shouldn't store *state* internally or access a shared *state*.
  * Accessing a shared state is often a bottleneck for stability.

* Design each application component so that it focuses on either *compute tasks* or *storage*.
  * **Good Practice:** Use a GCP engine for computational tasks, while using **Cloud Pub/Sub** as an information network.

* Application components should *start up quickly* and *shut down gracefully* when they receive a termination signal.

__Benefits:__ This approach will enable the developer to use a *worker pattern* that allows for parallel processing. Additionally, individual components can elastically and reliably scale.

- - - -

## Cache Content

* Cache application data, or computationally intensive data, should be cached.
  * **Good Practice:** Use **Redis** as a cache system for storing *abitrary* and *abstract* data structures.

* Front-end content should also be cached.
  * **Good Practice:** Use **Cloud CDN** to cache load-balanced front-end content.

__Benefits:__ Caching content can improve application peformance and lower network latency.

- - - -

## Implement API Gateways

* Follow the open API specification: **GRPC**.
  * **Good Practice:** Use **Cloud Endpoints** to deploy, develop, protect, and monitor APIs.

* API could be implemented as a *facade* or *adapter layer* for legacy applications that can't be refactored and moved to the cloud.
  * **Good Practice:** Use **Apigee API** to create APIs for legacy applications.     