# Cloud Client Libraries & SDK

## Cloud Client Libraries

**Google Cloud Client Libraries** are the latest and recommended method to invoke Google Cloud Platform APIs. They can be downloaded from: https://cloud.google.com/apis/docs/cloud-client-libraries

### Features

* Can be used by the **Go**, **Java**, **Node.js**, **Python**, **Ruby**, **PHP**, **C#**, and **C++** programming languages.

* Provides retry logic for *transit network failures*.

* Receives performance benefits and communication transparency from the *Google Remote Procedure Calls (GRPC)* protocol.

* Uses **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** to authenticate an application. If the credentials aren't specified within the code, **ADC** will first look for the *GOOGLE_APPLICATIONS_CREDENTIALS* environment variable. Else, it will look for the default account provided by **Compute Engine**, **Kubernetes Engine**, **App Engine**, and **Cloud Functions**.

- - - -

## Google Cloud SDK

The **Google Cloud SDK** contains command-line tools to work with GCP services, while the **Firebase SDK** provides command-line tools to implement *Federated Identity Management*. The SDK can be downloaded from: 

https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install

Once installed, the SDK needs to be initialized.

```
    gcloud init
```

The **Cloud SDK** consists of three main commands:

* *gcloud*: Performs common tasks such as viewing, creating, and managing GCP resources.

* *bq*: Stands for **BigQuery**. Primarily used to run queries, but can also be used to manage datasets, tables, and other **BigQuery** entities.

* *gsutil*: Used to perform tasks with **Cloud Storage**. Can be used to create and manage buckets, as well as upload, download, move, copy, rename, manage access, and delete stored objects.

- - - -

## Cloud Shell

**Cloud Shell** is a browser-based command line tool. It provides the developer with access to a temporary VM. 

### Features

* The VM has an *F1 Micro (0.2 virtual CPUs)*, 5GB of persistent storage, and a pre-installed Cloud SDK with built-in authorization.

* Built-in code and website viewer.

* Pre-installed support for *Cloud Client Library* languages.

- - - -

## Identity-Aware Proxy (IAP)

**IAP** allows the developer to establish a central authorization layer for applications accessed by HTTPS. **IAP** intercepts web requests and verifies the identity of the user making the request; this allows the developer to adopt application-level access control instead of relying on network-level firewalls. *Signed headers* or the **App Engine Standard** environment *Users API* should be used in conjunction with **IAP** for added security.

- - - -

## API Explorer

A tool created to help the developer explore various Google APIs. 

### Features

* Browse through APIs and their various versions.

* View the methods available through each API, as well as documentation for each individual method.

* Execute requests for any method and view the responses in real-time.

* The API calls can be authenticated and authorized through the explorer.

- - - -

## Cloud Code

**Cloud Code** provides users with various tools to write, debug, and deploy applications. It is available as an extention to various IDEs:

* Android Studio

* Eclipse

* IntelliJ

* PowerShell

* VisualStudio