# Automating Container Deployment

## Cloud Build

**Cloud Build** is a fully managed service that enables the developer to create build pipelines for generating **Docker** container images and pushing them to Google's **Cloud Registry**.

- - - -

### Automation With Container Registry

In the **Container Registry**, the developer can create a *Build Trigger*. The trigger can respond to commits to a particular branch or commits that contain a specific tag. **Cloud Build** can respond to the *Build Triggers*, which will allow the developer to create build pipelines that are automatically triggered when code is commited to a repository.

- - - -

### The Process

#### Configuration File

**Cloud Build** creates the *build pipeline* from a build configuration file, which can be created using *JSON*, or the *YAML* markup language. The configuration can be used do things such as specifying the container type using the *images* attribute, specifying the source repositories being used, tagging container images, and creating build steps that download/process data without creating a container image.

#### Build Pipeline

 Each *build step* within the *build pipeline* executes a **Docker** container. **Cloud Build** mounts the source code into the */workspace* directory of the **Docker** container; the */workspace* directory also stores the artifacts produced by each build step. Once the *build pipeline* has completed executing, the resulting container is pushed to the *Container Registry*. From here, the developer can view the status and history of the container. 

- - - -

## Deployment Manager

**Deployment Manager** is an infrastructure management service that automates the creation and management of not only **Cloud Build**, but almost all GCP resources. 

### Features

* The GCP environment and individual component setup can be specified in a template file provided to the **Deployment Manager**. The template file can be created using *Python* or the *YAML* markup language.
* Enables the developer to launch VM instances based on container images created by the *build pipeline*.
* The configuration defines the resources to provision, which involves specifying the type and propeties of resources required for deployment. 
* The entire deployment configuration consists of a top-level configuration file and syntax templates specific to individual projects.

An infrastructure management service that automates the creation and management of GCP resources. The entire GCP environment and individual component setup can be specified in a template file provided to the **Deployment Manager**, which is created using the *YAML* markup language or *Python*.