# Google Operations

**Google Operations** combines metrics, logs, and metadata across multiple on-prem and cloud environments to generate comprehensive application details and visualizations. **Google Operations** consists of many services:

- - - -

## Logs Router

When users of an applications perform actions and consequently generate logs, the logs are sent to the **Cloud Logging API** and pass through the **Logs Router**. The **Logs Router** checks each log entry against existing rules to determine which entry to discard, ingest, or include in exports. Once filtered, the developer can determine where the logs should be sent.


## Error Reporing

**Error Reporing** analyzes and aggregates the errors generated from the various services used by a cloud application. It will notify the developer when new errors are detected.


## Cloud Monitoring

**Cloud Monitoring** can be used to create alerts to notify the developer when metrics, health check results, and updtime check results meet specified criteria. The service also provides endpoints checks to web applications and other internet services running on the cloud environment. The checks can be associated with URLs or resources such as instances and load balancers.


## Service Monitoring

**Service Monitoring** provides telemetry and dashboards that allow for troubleshooting through topology and context graphs. Also provides automatic health monitoring through *Service Level Objectives (SLOs)* and error budget management.

## Cloud Trace

**Cloud Trace** provides latency sampling and reporting for **App Engine**, such as per-URL staistics and latency distributions

## Cloud Debugger

**Cloud Debugger** provides debugging features by inspecting the state of the application when an error occurs and using this state to identify where the error occured in the source code. Doesn't slow down requests when finding the error location.

## Cloud Profiler

**Cloud Profiler** provides continuous profiling of resource consumption in applications, which will help identify and eliminate potential performance issues.

## Cloud Audit Logs

** Cloud Audit Logs** provides real-time user activity visibility across the Google Cloud.






